# 9. JWT

Date: 2025-02-12

## Status

Accepted

## Context

While unauthenticated access is prevented by validating the user session with Sirius on each request, we don't currently
authenticate requests from the frontend to the Finance Hub API. Although this route is protected via other means (e.g. 
restrictive ingress rules in the security groups), it is still a potential security risk. Additionally, we have no authorisation
mechanism, or a way to identify the user making the request.

## Decision

We will implement JWT authentication between the Finance services. This will be done with short-lived, request-scoped JWTs,
created by the frontend services after successful authentication of the user session. The JWT will contain the user ID,
along with the user's roles as an additional claim. The JWT will be passed in the `Authorization` header of the request to the
Finance Hub API, which will validate the token and extract the user ID and roles, to enable it to both authenticate and authorise,
and to log the user making the request in the auditable fields within the relevant database tables.

## Consequences

The JWT secret be rotated regularly as per good security practice. However, as the secret is passed in as an environment 
variable at start up, this will require a restart of the service to take effect. The finance services are not alone in this,
and it is a recognised issues within our wider infrastructure. This is mitigated by restarting all services when keys are
rotated, but we could improve this in the future by fetching the secret programmatically from AWS Secrets Manager.
