# 2. Adopt HTMX for partial template rendering

Date: 2024-03-14

## Status

Accepted

## Context

Our existing Golang front ends have a lot of similarities with Single Page Applications (SPAs) in terms of design but 
our current approach of using server-side rendered templates does not allow for that dynamism. This means every time a 
user selects a tab, submits a form, or changes a filter, the whole page is reloaded, including the static sub header 
information (e.g. client, deputy, etc.). Not only is this not an ideal user experience, but it also makes unnecessary requests to the API.

Rather than adopting a client-side JavaScript library or an Server Side Render (SSR) framework, a hybrid approach 
would be to use [HTMX](https://htmx.org/). This is a very lightweight library that allows for partial replacement of 
HTML without replacing the entire page, using a simple tagging approach, while sticking to the original Hypermedia intentions
of HTML. This is fairly widely used with Golang and is a popular (28k stars on Github) and well-maintained library.

## Decision

We will adopt HTMX in order to better render the website for our users. The first step in this will be to render the static
sub header content only on a full page load (i.e. where the `HX-Request` header is missing). Subsequently, we may be able to
better enhance other processes, such as form submission, validation handling, etc.

## Consequences

This is seen as a very low risk adoption with potentially great benefits. HTMX is entirely optional, in that it can be 
ignored or removed with little-to-no impact on our existing codebase, and after the adjustments made in the initial 
Proof of Concept, it will require no modification to our existing templating workflow.

Additionally, the adjustments to our code structure made in order to adopt HTMX have improved how structs and packages are used to namespace
functionality, reducing code duplication and improving readability.
